# multilayer-perceptron
In this project, I implemented a multilayer perceptron entirely from scratch with the only non-standard dependency being a matrix library I also created. I started by creating a simple one-layer perceptron that could differentiate between the digits '0' and '1'. After achieving that, I decided to try and classify all digits from '0' to '9', which required a neural network capable of non-linear classification and the multilayer perceptron was the natural choice. The implementation involved one input layer, one output layer, and an arbitrary number of hidden layers in-between.

To train my MLP to classify handwritten digits, I used the MNIST dataset, which contains 60,000 training images and 10,000 testing images of handwritten digits. Each image was a 28x28 grayscale image with each pixel represented by a value between 0 and 255. To preprocess the data, I normalized the pixel values to be between 0 and 1 and flattened the images into 1D arrays.

The only issue is with training time. Since I used a form of stochastic gradient descent the weights were updated after each training example, this made it hard to parallelize and so I had the network training on a single core. Ideally, when using large datasets I should have implemented a type of batch gradient descent which would have allowed me to train the network in parallel and would hve significantly reduced the amount of time it took to train.

Throughout the project, I gained a deeper understanding of neural network and machine learning fundamentals, such as forward and back propagation, loss/cost functions, and gradient descent. I also gained a better understanding of the calculus underlying gradient descent, especially the chain rule. Overall, the project allowed me to consolidate my knowledge of these concepts and apply them to a real-world problem.

This repo is just the stand-alone multilayer perceptron, to see the full-stack web-app that utilizes my trained multilayer perceptron, and was built (mostly) from scratch, check out my github page.
